+++
title = "mRIN for direct assessment of genome-wide and gene-specific mRNA integrity from large-scale RNA-sequencing data"
date = 2015-08-03T00:00:00

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
#authors = ["GA Cushen", "MS Nixon"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "Nature communications 6, 7816"
#publication_short = "In *ICMEW*"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "The volume of RNA-Seq data sets in public repositories has been expanding exponentially, providing unprecedented opportunities to study gene expression regulation. Because degraded RNA samples, such as those collected from post-mortem tissues, can result in distinct expression profiles with potential biases, a particularly important step in mining these data is quality control. Here we develop a method named mRIN to directly assess mRNA integrity from RNA-Seq data at the sample and individual gene level. We systematically analyse large-scale RNA-Seq data sets of the human brain transcriptome generated by different consortia. Our analysis demonstrates that 3′ bias resulting from partial RNA fragmentation in post-mortem tissues has a marked impact on global expression profiles, and that mRIN effectively identifies samples with different levels of mRNA degradation. Unexpectedly, this process has a reproducible and gene-specific component, and transcripts with different stabilities are associated with distinct functions and structural features reminiscent of mRNA decay in living cells."
#abstract_short = "A mobile visual clothing search system is presented whereby a smart phone user can either choose a social networking image or capture a new photo of a person wearing clothing of interest and search for similar clothing in a large cloud-based ecommerce database. The phone's GPS location is used to re-rank results by retail store location, to inform the user of local stores where similar clothing items can be tried on."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = "mRIN_fig2.jpg"

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename of your project in `content/project/`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
# projects = ["example-external-project.md"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "https://www.nature.com/articles/ncomms8816"
# url_preprint = "http://eprints.soton.ac.uk/352095/1/Cushen-IMV2013.pdf"
url_code = "https://github.com/chaolinzhanglab/mrin"
# url_dataset = "#"
# url_project = "#"
# url_slides = "#"
# url_video = "#"
# url_poster = "#"
# url_source = "#"

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
# [header]
 image = "mRIN_fig2.jpg"
# caption = "My caption :smile:"

+++
